kiln-java-adaptor
=================

You can find more information on Kiln, the open source platform for log aggregation, visualization and analysis, on its [GitHub page](https://github.com/rcracel/Kiln).

# Log4J Appender

If you are using Maven with Java or another JVM based languange, you can add a dependency to the Kiln adapter to your application, and usually through a simple configuration line push log events to your Kiln instance.

The project information and source code for the Log4J adaptor is currently available the [Project Page](https://github.com/rcracel/kiln-java-adaptor) on GitHub. Feel free to check it out, contribute or report bugs.

## Maven

### pom.xml

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.nevermindsoft</groupId>
    <artifactId>kiln-adaptor-java</artifactId>
    <version>1.8</version>
</dependency>
```

## Java

### TODO

## Grails

### BuildConfig.groovy

```groovy
dependencies {
    runtime 'com.nevermindsoft:kiln-adaptor-java:1.8'
    ....
}
```

### Config.groovy
```groovy
log4j = {
    appenders {
        ....
        appender    new com.nevermindsoft.kiln.RemoteServiceAppender(
                name:            "remote",
                moduleName:      "My Module Name",
                apiKey:          "get-key-from-kiln",
                environmentName: grails.util.Environment.current.getName(),
                serverUrl:       "http://my.url/api/events/publish",
                maxRequestItems: 200,
                sleepTime:       5000
        )
    }
 
    ...
 
    root {
        info  'remote'
        ...
    }
}
```

## Configuration Options

* **name** - specifies the name for this appender. You will use this name as a reference in your log configuration file to specify which messages are to be logged.
* **moduleName** - specifies the name of the module we are using to produce messages. This may be removed on a future version.
* **apiKey** - the api key configured on your Kiln service. The application name will be automatically deducted from this api key.
* **environmentName** - you can specify your environment for more finely grained Kiln filtering. Typical values are production, staging, test, environment, but the value of this property can be any string.
* **serverUrl** - the url for your publish operation on your kiln service. This will typically be on the format http://[your domain or ip]/api/events/publish unless modified on the server source code.
* **maxRequestItems** - the maximum number of events to send on a single request. Used for throttling and to avoid server overload and failure due to very large requests.
* **sleepTime** - the time between requests in milliseconds. The appender will keep an internal queue of events and send them out to the server at the given interval.
* **internalLogger** - the instance of a KilnInternalLogger to be used for internal logging. The default is to use a com.nevermindsoft.kiln.internal.log.KilnConsoleLogger( Level.WARN ). See documentation for more options.
* **internalLoggerClassName** - the name of the class to be used for internal logging. This is an alternate way to specify the internal logger. Using the *internalLogger* property should be used instead whenever possible.

## Changelog

* 1.9
    * Adding an option to specify the internal logger to use
    * Adding option to indicate how the source reference should be represented on the generated json to allow using the appender across frameworks
    * Using Apache HttpClient instead of java.net.URL to publish requests
    * Adding support for SSL connections
* 1.8 *(released)*
    * Fixed a bug with the json generated by the appender when stack traces or source were present
* 1.7 *(released)*
    * Fixed bug causing stack traces to be populated with the string "null"
